lab03.0-bootcamp-pre-requisites/0_README.md, before:

# Setting up for the bootcamp

The following steps will get us up and running for the bootcamp. These activities take about 2.5 hours in total and should be completed **prior to attending** the bootcamp. Failure to do so will result in falling behind during the workshop and divert time and attention from the material covered throughout the bootcamp.
 
##  What we will need for this workshop: 

 -  A Microsoft Azure account where we can create resources, including Application Insights. This could be an organization account, an MSDN subscription account, a Trial Account, or a work account.
 -  A Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Experimentation and Model Management Account.
 -  A Windows laptop on which we can install software **OR** any machine with **Remote Desktop Connection** so that we can access a remote Windows Data Science Virtual Machine (Note: a **v3** type VM is required to leverage Docker if we chose an Azure DSVM, and this is officially not yet supported).

##  Setting up the environment 

For the remainder of this lab, we will be working exclusively on the DSVM. So log into the DSVM and then run through the steps outlined here.

1. Launch Docker for Windows and while waiting for Docker to start running, open the Azure Machine Learning Workbench. When prompted to authenticate using an Azure account, please do so.
2. Click on initials at the bottom-left corner of the Workbench and make sure that we are using the correct account (if you already have a Model Management account, otherwise we will create one later).
3. Go to **File > Configure Project IDE** and name the IDE `Code` with the following path `C:\Program Files\Microsoft VS Code\Code.exe`. This will allow us to open the entire project in Visual Studio Code, which is our editor of choice for this lab.
4. Go to **File > Open Project (VSCode)** to open the project in Visual Studio Code. It is not necessary to use Code to make edit our course files but it is much more convenient. We will return to Code when we need to make changes to the existing scripts.
5. We now log into the Azure CLI using our Azure account. Return to the Workbench and go to **File > Open Command Prompt**. Check that the Azure CLI is installed on the DSVM by typing `az -h`. Now type `az login` and copy the access code. In Firefox open a **private tab** using **CTRL+SHIFT+P** then enter the URL `aka.ms/devicelogin` and when prompted, paste in the access code. Next, authenticate using an Azure account.
6. We now set the Azure CLI to use the right Azure account. From the command prompt, enter `az account list –o table` to see available accounts. Then copy the subscription ID from the Azure account used to create an AML Workbench account and type `az account set –s <SUBSCRIPTION_ID>`, replacing `<SUBSCRIPTION_ID>` with the account ID.

Commit message:

Added instructions to provision an Experimentation and Model Management acconut to the pre-requisites.

lab03.0-bootcamp-pre-requisites/0_README.md, after:

# Setting up for the bootcamp

The following steps will get us up and running for the bootcamp. These activities take about 2.5 hours in total and should be completed **prior to attending** the bootcamp. Failure to do so will result in falling behind during the workshop and divert time and attention from the material covered throughout the bootcamp.
 
## What we will need for this workshop: 

 -  A Microsoft Azure account where we can create resources, including Application Insights. This could be an organization account, an MSDN subscription account, a Trial Account, or a work account.
 -  A Windows laptop on which we can install software **OR** any machine with **Remote Desktop Connection** so that we can access a remote Windows Data Science Virtual Machine (DSVM) (Note: a **v3** type VM is required to leverage Docker if we chose an Azure DSVM, and this is officially not yet supported)
 -  A Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Experimentation account and an accompanying Model Management account.

## Provisioning the environment

For this workshop, we go the link [http://bit.ly/ai-dev-04](http://bit.ly/ai-dev-04) and fill out and submit the form. This will provide us with an Azure account we can use throughout the workshop, and credentials to log into a DSVM that is provisioned for the purpose of running the labs. To log into the DSVM, we simply launch **Remote Desktop Connection** from our machines and enter the DSVM name followed by our credentials.

To create an Azure Machine Learning Experimentation and Model Management accounts, log into the Azure portal at [https://portal.azure.com/](https://portal.azure.com/) using the Azure account we are given, click on **Create a Resource** and search for the term **machine learning** in the search bar and in the results select **Machine Learning Experimentation (preview)** and click on **Create**.

![](./images/machine-learning-search-bar.jpg)

We need to fill out a form and provide some information about the account: 

- choose an account name
- select the subscription
- choose the resource group that has already been created for us (in the lab environment we are provided, we will not be able to create a new resource group)
- leave location and number of seats as is
- make sure the storage account name is valid
- notice a Workspace is automatically created for us as part of the provisioning
- notice that by default a Model Management account is created to accompany the Experimentation account, so that we don't have to provision the Model Management account separately
- choose **DEVTEST** or **S1** as the pricing tier for the Model Management account

Check the box that says **Pin to dashboard** and click on **Create** to provision the resources.

## Setting up the environment 

For the remainder of this lab, we will be working exclusively on the DSVM. So log into the DSVM and then run through the steps outlined here.

1. Launch **Docker for Windows** from the start menu. We do NOT need to sign into Docker and can ignore and close the window prompting us to do so. While waiting for Docker to start running, open the Azure Machine Learning Workbench. When prompted to authenticate using an Azure account, please do so.
2. Click on initials at the bottom-left corner of the Workbench and make sure that we are using the correct account (assuming we already have an Experimentation account).
3. Go to **File > Configure Project IDE** and name the IDE `Code` with the following path `C:\Program Files\Microsoft VS Code\Code.exe`. This will allow us to open the entire project in Visual Studio Code, which is our editor of choice for this lab.
4. Go to **File > Open Project (VSCode)** to open the project in Visual Studio Code. It is not necessary to use Code to make edit our course files but it is much more convenient. We will return to Code when we need to make changes to the existing scripts.
5. We now log into the Azure CLI using our Azure account. Return to the Workbench and go to **File > Open Command Prompt**. Check that the Azure CLI is installed on the DSVM by typing `az -h`. Now type `az login` and copy the access code. In Firefox open a **private tab** using **CTRL+SHIFT+P** then enter the URL `aka.ms/devicelogin` and when prompted, paste in the access code. Next, authenticate using an Azure account.
6. We now set the Azure CLI to use the right Azure account. From the command prompt, enter `az account list –o table` to see available accounts. Then copy the subscription ID from the Azure account used to create an AML Workbench account and type `az account set –s <SUBSCRIPTION_ID>`, replacing `<SUBSCRIPTION_ID>` with the account ID.
