emergingaidev_bootcamp.md, before:

# Welcome 

Welcome to the first two days of the Learn AI Bootcamp. In these two days, we will focus on hands-on activities that develop proficiency in AI-oriented services such as Azure Bot Services, Azure Search, and Cognitive Services. These labs assume an introductory to intermediate knowledge of these services, and if this is not the case, then you should spend the time working through the pre-requisites.

# Goals

Most challenges observed by customers in these realms are in stitching multiple services together. As such, where possible, we have tried to place key concepts in the context of a broader example. 

At the end of this workshop, you should be able to:

- Understand how to configure your apps to call Cognitive Services
- Build an application that calls various Cognitive Services APIs (specifically Computer Vision)
- Understand how to implement Azure Search features to provide a positive search experience inside applications
- Configure an Azure Search service to extend your data to enable full-text, language-aware search
- Build, train, and publish a LUIS model to help your bot communicate effectively
- Build an intelligent bot using Microsoft Bot Framework that leverages LUIS and Azure Search
- Effectively log chat conversations in your bot
- Perform rapid development/testing with Ngrok and test your bots with unit tests and direct bot communication
- Effectively leverage the custom vision service to create image classification services that can then be leveraged by an application

# Pre-requisites

This workshop is meant for an AI Developer on Azure. Since this is only a short workshop, there are certain things you need before you arrive.

Firstly, you should have some previous exposure to Visual Studio. We will be using it for everything we are building in the workshop, so you should be familiar with [how to use it](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/visual-studio-ide) to create applications. Additionally, this is not a class where we teach you how to code or develop applications. We assume you have some familiarity with C# (intermediate level - you can learn [here](https://mva.microsoft.com/en-us/training-courses/c-fundamentals-for-absolute-beginners-16169?l=Lvld4EQIC_2706218949)), but you do not know how to implement solutions with Cognitive Services. 

Secondly, you should have some experience developing bots with Microsoft's Bot Framework. We won't spend a lot of time discussing how to design them or how dialogs work. If you are not familiar with the Bot Framework, you should complete [this tutorial](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/dotnet/bot-builder-dotnet-sdk-quickstart?view=azure-bot-service-4.0) prior to attending the workshop.

Thirdly, you should have experience with the portal and be able to create resources (and spend money) on Azure. We will not be providing Azure passes for this workshop.

Finally, before arriving at the workshop, we expect you to have completed [1_Setup](./lab01.1-computer_vision/1_Setup.md) along with the configuring the following for Custom Vision:
  * Training API Key: The training API key allows you to create, manage and train Custom Vision project programmatically.
    * You can obtain a key by creating a new project at https://customvision.ai and then clicking on the “setting” gear in the top right. 
 


# Agenda

Please note: This is a rough agenda, and the schedule is subject to change pending class activities and interaction.

- Day 1: Cognitive Services
  - 8-9 (optional): Setup assistance
  - 9-10: Introduction and Context for Cognitive Services
  - 10-12: [Lab 1.1: Simplifying Cognitive Services App Development using Portable Class Libraries][lab-cogsrvc-301]
  - 12-1: Lunch
  - 1-1:30: [Lab 1.2: Creating an Image Classification Application using the Custom Vision Service I][lab-cogsrvc-321]
  - 1:30-2:00: [Lab 1.3: Creating an Image Classification Application using the Custom Vision Service II][lab-cogsrvc-322]
  - 2:00-2:30: [Lab 1.4: Creating an Image Classification Application using the Custom Vision Service III][lab-cogsrvc-323]
  - 2:30-3:45: [Lab 1.5: Developing Intelligent Applications with LUIS][lab-cogsrvc-341]
  - 3:45-5: [Business Case I - Cognitive Services](./lab01.6-bootcamp_case_1/Case_Part1.md)
- Day 2: Bots
  - 9-10: [Lab 2.1: Developing Intelligent Applications with Azure Search][lab-azsearch-301]
  - 10-10:30: Introduction and Context for Bots
  - 10:30-12: [Lab 2.2: Building Intelligent Bots][lab-intelbot-301]
  - 12-1: Lunch
  - 1-2:  [Lab 2.3: Log Chat Conversations in your Bot][lab-intelbot-311]
  - 2-3: [Lab 2.4: Testing your Bot][lab-intelbot-321]
  - 3-4: [Business Case II - Bots](./lab02.5-bootcamp_case_2/Case_Part2.md)
  - 4-5: Q&A and Feedback for Emerging AI Bootcamp


# Discussion Forum

We will also use a gitter forum for discussion. Please post comments and questions [here][gitter].

[lab-cogsrvc-301]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-cogsrvc-301
[lab-cogsrvc-321]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-cogsrvc-321
[lab-cogsrvc-322]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-cogsrvc-322
[lab-cogsrvc-323]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-cogsrvc-323
[lab-cogsrvc-341]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-cogsrvc-341
[lab-azsearch-301]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-azsearch-301
[lab-intelbot-301]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-intelbot-301
[lab-intelbot-311]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-intelbot-311
[lab-intelbot-321]:https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-intelbot-321
[gitter]: https://gitter.im/LearnAI-Bootcamps

Commit message:

updating architecture, updates to 2.2 and agenda, moving testing-logging to extra materials

emergingaidev_bootcamp.md, after:

## LearnAI
# Intelligent Apps + Agents: Implementation

## Welcome 

Welcome to the first two days of the Learn AI Bootcamp. In these two days, we will focus on hands-on activities that develop proficiency in AI-oriented services such as Azure Bot Services, Azure Search, and Cognitive Services. These labs assume an introductory to intermediate knowledge of these services, and if this is not the case, then you should spend the time working through the pre-requisites.

> **!!Important note 09/28/2018!!**: The Microsoft Bot Builder SDK V4 went GA at Ignite this week. The bot labs have been updated to SDK V4, but the SDK V3 labs are located in the resources folder for the bot labs (not being maintained). Additionally, we have moved the logging and testing labs to supplementary exercises (also not being maintained), and the bootcamp will focus on the addition of the Bing Search APIs to bots and other applications.  
> If you are an instructor redelivering this course and have questions, please email learnanalytics@microsoft.com.  

## Goals

Most challenges observed by customers in these realms are in stitching multiple services together. As such, where possible, we have tried to place key concepts in the context of a broader example. 

At the end of this workshop, you should be able to:

- Understand how to configure your apps to call Cognitive Services
- Build an application that calls various Cognitive Services APIs (specifically Computer Vision)
- Effectively leverage the custom vision service to create image classification  and object detection services that can then be leveraged by an application
- Understand how to implement Azure Search features to provide a positive search experience inside applications
- Configure an Azure Search service to extend your data to enable full-text, language-aware search
- Build, train, and publish a LUIS model to help your bot communicate effectively
- Build and publish an intelligent bot using Microsoft Bot Framework that leverages LUIS and Azure Search
- Add Cognitive Services (specifically the Bing Search APIs) to your existing applications


## Pre-requisites

This workshop is meant for an AI Developer on Azure. Since this is only a short workshop, there are certain things you need before you arrive.

Firstly, you should have some previous exposure to Visual Studio. We will be using it for everything we are building in the workshop, so you should be familiar with [how to use it](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/visual-studio-ide) to create applications. Additionally, this is not a class where we teach you how to code or develop applications. We assume you have some familiarity with C# (intermediate level - you can learn [here](https://mva.microsoft.com/en-us/training-courses/c-fundamentals-for-absolute-beginners-16169?l=Lvld4EQIC_2706218949)), but you do not know how to implement solutions with Cognitive Services. 

Secondly, you should have some experience developing bots with Microsoft's Bot Framework. We won't spend a lot of time discussing how to design them or how dialogs work. If you are not familiar with the Bot Framework, you should complete [this tutorial](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/dotnet/bot-builder-dotnet-sdk-quickstart?view=azure-bot-service-4.0) prior to attending the workshop.

Thirdly, you should have experience with the portal and be able to create resources (and spend money) on Azure. We will not be providing Azure passes for this workshop.

Finally, before arriving at the workshop, we expect you to have completed [1_Setup](./lab01.1-computer_vision/1_Setup.md) along with configuring the following for Custom Vision:
  * Training API Key: The training API key allows you to create, manage and train Custom Vision project programmatically.
    * You can obtain a key by creating a new project at https://customvision.ai and then clicking on the “setting” gear in the top right. 
 


## Agenda

Please note: This is a rough agenda, and the schedule is subject to change pending class activities and interaction.

- Day 1: Cognitive Services
  - 8-9 (optional): Setup assistance
  - 9-10: Introduction and Context for Cognitive Services
  - 10-12: [Lab 1.1: Simplifying Cognitive Services App Development using Portable Class Libraries][lab-cogsrvc-301]
  - 12-1: Lunch
  - 1-1:30: [Lab 1.2: Creating an Image Classification Application using the Custom Vision Service][lab-cogsrvc-321]
  - 1:30-2:00: [Lab 1.3: Creating an Object Detection Application using the Custom Vision Service][lab-cogsrvc-322]
  - 2:00-2:30: [[Optional Challenge] Lab 1.4: Creating an Image Classification Application using the Custom Vision Service][lab-cogsrvc-323]
  - 2:30-3:45: [Lab 1.5: Developing Intelligent Applications with LUIS][lab-cogsrvc-341]
  - 3:45-5: [Business Case I - Cognitive Services](./lab01.6-bootcamp_case_1/Case_Part1.md)
- Day 2: Bots
  - 9-10: [Lab 2.1: Developing Intelligent Applications with Azure Search][lab-azsearch-301]
  - 10-10:30: Introduction and Context for Bots
  - 10:30-12:30: [Lab 2.2: Building Intelligent Bots][lab-intelbot-301]
  - 12:30-1:30: Lunch
  - 1:30-3:  [Lab 2.3: Enhancing Applications with Bing Search](./lab02.3-bing_search/0_README.md)
  - 3-4: [Business Case II - Bots](./lab02.4-bootcamp_case_2/Case_Part2.md)
  - 4-5: Q&A and Feedback for Emerging AI Bootcamp

## Supplementary materials
The LearnAI team has related materials that may be of interest:
- [Lab 2.5: Log Chat Conversations in your Bot](./lab02.5-logging_chat_conversations/0_README.md)
- [Lab 2.6: Testing your Bot](./lab02.6-testing_bots/0_README.md)
- [LearnAI: Intelligent Apps + Agents: Design and Architecture](https://aka.ms/daaia)
- [LearnAI: Building Enterprise Cognitive Search Solutions](https://aka.ms/csw)


## Discussion Forum

We will also use a gitter forum for discussion. Please post comments and questions [here][gitter].

[lab-cogsrvc-301]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-cogsrvc-301
[lab-cogsrvc-321]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-cogsrvc-321
[lab-cogsrvc-322]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-cogsrvc-322
[lab-cogsrvc-323]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-cogsrvc-323
[lab-cogsrvc-341]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-cogsrvc-341
[lab-azsearch-301]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-azsearch-301
[lab-intelbot-301]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-intelbot-301
[lab-intelbot-311]: https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-intelbot-311
[lab-intelbot-321]:https://aka.ms/LearnAI-EmergingAIDevBootcamp-intelbot-321
[gitter]: https://gitter.im/LearnAI-Bootcamps
