lab02.2-building_bots/5_Closing.md, before:

## 5_Closing

## Lab Completion

In this lab we covered creating an intelligent bot from end-to-end using the Microsoft Bot Framework, Azure Search and several Cognitive Services.

You should have learned:
- How to weave intelligent services into your applications
- How to implement Azure Search features to provide a positive search experience inside an application
- How to configure an Azure Search service to extend your data to enable full-text, language-aware search
- How to build, train and publish a LUIS model to help your bot communicate effectively
- How to build an intelligent bot using Microsoft Bot Framework that leverages LUIS and Azure Search


Resources for future projects/learning:
- [Azure Bot Services documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/bot-framework/)
- [Bot Builder Tutorials](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-service-design-principles?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)
- [Azure Search documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/search-what-is-azure-search)
- [Azure Bot Builder Samples](https://github.com/Microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples)
- [Azure Search Samples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/search-dotnet-getting-started)
- [LUIS documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/LUIS/Home)
- [LUIS Sample](https://github.com/Microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/blob/master/CSharp/intelligence-LUIS/README.md)
- [Course on Designing and Architecting Intelligent Agents](https://aka.ms/daaia)


Back to [README](./0_README.md)

Commit message:

updating architecture, updates to 2.2 and agenda, moving testing-logging to extra materials

lab02.2-building_bots/5_Closing.md, after:

## 5_Closing

## Lab Completion

In this lab we covered creating an intelligent bot from end-to-end using the Microsoft Bot Framework, Azure Search and several Cognitive Services.

You should have learned:
- How to weave intelligent services into your applications
- How to implement Azure Search features to provide a positive search experience inside an application
- How to configure an Azure Search service to extend your data to enable full-text, language-aware search
- How to build, train and publish a LUIS model to help your bot communicate effectively
- How to build an intelligent bot using Microsoft Bot Framework that leverages LUIS and Azure Search  

In the next lab, we'll talk about additions to a bot that's already been deployed, you'll add Bing Search to your bot. In supplementary labs, you can learn more about logging and testing bots, as well as how to design and architect intelligent agents.  

Other resources for future projects/learning:
- [Azure Bot Services documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/bot-framework/)
- [Bot Builder Tutorials](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-service-design-principles?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)
- [Azure Search documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/search-what-is-azure-search)
- [Azure Bot Builder Samples](https://github.com/Microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples)
- [Azure Search Samples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/search-dotnet-getting-started)
- [LUIS documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/LUIS/Home)
- [Course on Designing and Architecting Intelligent Agents](https://aka.ms/daaia)


Back to [README](./0_README.md)
